* <a href="#about">About</a>
* <a href="#install">Install</a>
* <a href="#examples">Example Usage</a>
* <a href="#documentation">API Documentation</a>


<a name="about"></a>

h3. About

Rincanter is a clojure/incanter wrapper around the rosuda JRIEngine Java/R bridge. The hope is to allow easy access to an embedded R engine from incanter. It also offers translation between clojure/incanter datatypes and R datatypes such as R dataframe to incanter dataset. 

<a name="install"></a>

h4. Install

As rincanter sits on top the org.rosuda JRI and JRIEngine packages, you will need install these to use rincanter. This can be a bit tricky, as the JRI component needs to compile some native JNI libs and install them on the java.library.path in order to run. 

h4. Download and Install the rosuda JRI and REngine components

bc..  svn co svn://svn.rforge.net/org/trunk/rosuda/REngine
 svn://svn.rforge.net/org/trunk/rosuda/JRI
 cd JRI
 configure && make

p. You will now have a jri library file in this directory. Depending on your platform it will have a name like: libjri.so (linux) libjri.jnilib (Mac OS X) jri.dll (Windows) 

bc..  cd ../REngine
 configure && make

p. You will now have an REngine.jar file in this directory. 

bc..  cd JRI # this is a child dir of REngine, different from the JRI dir above
 configure && make

p. You will now have an JRIEngine.jar file in this directory. 

h4. Install incanter from git

I am using features in incanter that are in git but not up on clojars yet. You will need to pull incanter from github and from the incanter directory run:

bc.. lein install

p. Now you are ready to download rincanter and run it: 

bc.. git clone git@github.com:jolby/rincanter.git
cd rincanter
lein deps # this installs incanter and its deps into the lib subdir

p. Now, move the two .jar files (REngine.jar and JRIEngine.jar) into the lib directory of the rincanter project. Then move the native jri lib into the root of the rincanter project. 

<a name="examples"></a>

h3. Run and Test

After doing this, you should be ready to go! To run rincanter's tests: 

bc.. lein test

p. To start a swank-repl: 

bc..  lein repl

<a name="documentation"></a>

h3. Documentation

API Documentation for rincanter is located at:
* "API":http://jolby.github.com/rincanter
